# templates

# Templates with scripts for advanced user experience and automation
After a short experience with this private repository, I decided to make some of my automation scripts publicly available that can improve user experience and habits during interaction with GNOME and i3. It may be very difficult for others to build directly on top of my scripts because everyone has a different level of experience and habits, so I will try to add only those features that may be helpful for others with hints and questions that I am looking for to have the option to also contribute into this project. We hope to force the community to return removed features or introduce new ones.

You can always install a clean system with your prepared kickstart, but that is only sometimes possible. So, we need the option to modify an existing system to add aliases, functions, tools, and an environment that is consistent and under our control. It is always preferred to use Ansible scripts as a declarative way of system management. Sometimes, raw scripts for installation are used to touch the system directly.

I will describe why I use the shortcuts for specific actions even though there are established keys for these actions. For example, everyone knows that you can use `Alt+F`4 to close a window. But here I remap this action to the `F12` key. It is very time-consuming to press Alt+F4 because you need to use two hands to press these keys. F12 is much better. The left hand has an Esc key to remove from the dialog box or escape the current process workflow. For the right hand, it is an analogy as `F12` is on the other side. So if Esc is not going to help, then simply `F12` will do the job and close the window or exit the application. Everyone will adopt this usage scenario very quickly, and we will be happier than before.

Another example is how to switch off the computer. For this, I decided on `Alt+End`; yes, it is probably strange, but you will see later that it is exactly what you are looking for. A similar reboot is mapped to `Alt+Delete`. The elementary concept is to force the action always: do not disturb me with any stupid question like "Are you sure?". Did you work previously with Windows, for example? Do you remember how angry you are when you switch off the computer and the operating system is always trying to protect you before yourself? This concept is historical, primitive, and disturbing. This is something not acceptable. For example, when you want to close the `gnome-terminal` session, the system asks for confirmation. The default setting with these templates always removes these kinds of confirmations enabled by default.
